Lion fights Curze, gets hurt. Corswain sticks sword through Curze, and then everyone seperates as the drop bods come down.
   

The **Dark Angels** and **Night Lords** **Legions** are locked in battle over the **Thramas sector**, neither side able to gain an advantage without losing equally important territory elsewhere. **Konrad Curze** summons **Lion El'Jonson** to parlay on a barren world named **Tsagualsa** and each primarch attends with only two warriors, though their fleets remain in orbit. **Corswain** and **Alajos** of the Dark Angels exchange barbs and insults with **Sevatar** and **Sheng** of the Night Lords, while Curze and Jonson walk away to have a private discussion. The fragile peace is broken when Curze levels an insult Jonson cannot let slide and the Lion runs the Night Haunter through. The two primarchs begin a furious fight, while Alajos engages Sheng and Corswain tries to find Sevatar amidst the foundations of a fortress. Curze gets the upper hand and starts throttling Jonson, and Alajos sacrifices himself by taking on both Sheng and Sevatar while Corswain runs to the Lion's aid. Alajos cuts off Sheng's lower arm just before Sevatar beheads him. Corswain saves the Lion by ramming his sword into Curze's spine and forces from both sides arrive to pull their injured and raging primarchs apart. Both sides retreat, the engagement inconclusive.
 \> From \<[https://wh40k.lexicanum.com/wiki/Savage_Weapons_(Short_Story)](https://wh40k.lexicanum.com/wiki/Savage_Weapons_\(Short_Story\))\>