Know No Fear (Novel)
 \> From \<[https://wh40k.lexicanum.com/wiki/Know_No_Fear_(Novel)](https://wh40k.lexicanum.com/wiki/Know_No_Fear_\(Novel\))\>     

_Know No Fear_ documents the ==Word Bearers==' surprise assault on ==Calth==, a world belonging to the ==Ultramarines== and the subsequent course of the infamous ==Battle of Calth==. The story starts close to where the timelines of _Battle for the Abyss_ (Book 8) and _The First Heretic_ (Book 14) converge. The invasion is planned and led by the Traitor ==Primarch== ==Lorgar==, now fully and openly committed to the spread of the worship of Chaos. The story starts with the invasion force _en route_ to Calth. The objective is to completely destroy the Ultramarines Legion, the largest of all the ==Space Marine== ==Legions==, and by doing so, cause the creation of ==Warp Storms== due to the destructive energies unleashed by the war. The Warp Storms would isolate and confuse the Ultramarines forces and effectively neutralise them for the remainder of the ==Horus Heresy==. The Word Bearers are also offering this slaughter of Loyalists as a tribute to their new ==Gods of Chaos==. The story tracks the campaign from its opening phases and the actions of several characters. It is a bloody war with dark ritualistic undertones, scorched earth tactics, decisive use of technology, and the considerable involvement of ==Chaos==.
 \> From \<[https://warhammer40k.fandom.com/wiki/Know_No_Fear](https://warhammer40k.fandom.com/wiki/Know_No_Fear)\>     

They send in a ship superfast which destroys many of the defences, the world bearers then take over control of weapons and defences destroying ultramarine ships and then the sun. Making the sun over powerful killing anything on the surface. Ultramarines do get back control right at the end.