#qm
# Collapse

Say you have a double slit experiment but put polarisers perpendicularly aligned across the slits, the the interference pattern goes away. People often say it's the interaction between the photon and the polariser which collapses the wavefunction. But if the polarisers across a double slit are aligned you get the interference pattern. So you have the photon interacting with the polariser but no collapse, so if that's not it what is it. 

>Only if θ= π/2 do our pair of polarizers act as “which way” detectors. In this case slit “1” will only allow vertically polarized photons to pass through wile slit “2” admits only horizontally polarized photons, so that no interference pattern emerges, as can be seen from eq. (7). For θ ̸= π/2, then a vertically polarized photon can in principle pass through either slit and an interference pattern results; superimposed on this interference pattern for vertically polarized photons is a diﬀraction pattern for horizontally polarized photons which only pass through one slit.
https://arxiv.org/pdf/1110.4309

Also the usual experiment people use is the quantum eraser experiment. Where adding a polariser after the perpendicular polarisers brings back the interference pattern. But if the perpendicular polarisers collapsed the wavefunction it should be possible to bring it back. 
# MWI
#mwi

>Building on a recent result that developed these paradoxes into a no-go theorem, namely the _Local Friendliness Theorem_, we introduce the _Causal Friendliness Paradox_, a time-ordered analogue of it. In this framework, we replace the usual locality assumption with _Axiological Time Symmetry_ (ATS), and show that, when combined with the assumptions of _Absoluteness of Observed Events_ (AOE), _No Retrocausality_ (NRC), and _Screening via Pseudo Events_ (SPE), we obtain a causal inequality. We then show that quantum mechanics violates this inequality and is therefore incompatible with at least one of these assumptions.
https://arxiv.org/html/2510.26562v1
# Born rule
#bornrule

You can derive the Born rule, as being the only way probabilities work with certain assumptions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZUZgOUOOIU

Maybe related to Gleason's Theorem 

>The standard approach OP is referencing, can be found starting at p71 of Hugh Everett's thesis [here](https://cqi.inf.usi.ch/qic/everett_phd.pdf). Carroll/Sebens don't add that much to what Everett wrote, IMO, apart from emphasizing the interpretation of where the probabilities are coming from as arising from self-locating uncertainty, though I think arguably this was implicit in Everett's thesis. Mathematically, there is no question about the Born rule being the only one that is possible. This is what Everett showed in the above link, and what Gleason and others [proved](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gleason%27s_theorem) around the same time.
>The real question that remains, that I think OP is gesturing at, is not whether _mathematically_ the rule must be Born, but intuitively and conceptually, why the wave function amplitude _is not itself the thing we should count_when we measure the "volume of branches." Yes we can imagine more than merely two or three observers -- we can break any wave function into a million delta-function spikes corresponding to any arbitrary number of observers, if that helps. But that doesn't address the core difficulty, which is: why can't we just "count up" the wave function amplitude, if that is what the observers are made of!
>The other comment has the vacuous conclusion "The squared amplitude is exactly the quantity that measures this volume — which is why the Born rule follows." which is doing nothing more than merely restating the conclusion. Yes, of course the squared amplitude is the quantity that measures branch volume. The question is _why_? Why not the amplitude itself? Is there some mathematical maneuver that makes this fact plain and finally intuitive? Unfortunately no, not any more obvious than p71 of the above link to Everett's thesis.
The heart of that maneuver is the assumption that the wave function must be unambiguously normalized, and the fact that our wave function is complex valued. The only way of normalizing a complex wave function is through the standard Euclidean norm. That is where the Born rule ultimately comes from: if we start with a wave function of the form A|x> + B|y>, the Born rule is already snuck in through the normalization. The move of breaking apart, say, |y> into multiple outcomes whose probability by symmetry are the same, and then renormalizing the wave function, as Everett does in p71 above, is what shows that the Born rule is the only possible rule consistent with the normalization rule; it is essentially just the absolute value rule, the Euclidean norm. Where does this come from? It comes from the fact that our wave function is complex valued. That's the core of the issue. The wave function is complex valued, and the only way of making sense of a scalar value, a probability from a complex valued function, is through the absolute value, that is through the Euclidean norm, which treats each summed component weight as the norm square.
This all boils down to the question "what it is like to live as an observer who is complex-valued"; the only way to "count" complex-valued observers' "weightiness" (i.e. a scalar) is to measure some scalar value of them, and the only way to do that is through the absolute value, the Euclidean norm. This is not very different from electromagnetism, where the energy in the electric and magnetic fields go as |E|2 and |B|2 , and in fact E and B themselves aren't even relativistic invariants (just as the wave function is not invariant under arbitrary change of phase), you want something like E2 -B2 ...
https://www.reddit.com/r/seancarroll/comments/1r1j980/comment/o4qrkpv/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button
# Basics

Unitary operators are rotations, so <Uo|Uw> = <o|w>, they preserve probabilities. U hermitian = U inverse